The Ledston is a model of a living museum with two main features, a tramway and a fairground. It has tram-on-track detection, which allows for computer control/automation of tram running. 
It can be run manually by operators, by computer or a combination of both at the same time. On the fairground five of the rides are motorised. Each ride can be started by push button, which allows the public to interact with the scene. 

Ledston is modular and has 5 baseboards. It can be operated in multiple configurations with 2, 3, 4 or 5 baseboards. There are plans for more baseboards. Trams are DCC and can be automated by scripts running on JMRI. They are detected by MERG DTC2 digital train detectors, which are connected to Arduinos. Each Baseboards has one Arduino and between 2 and 6 track block sections. Turnouts are powered by servos controlled by the Arduino. They can also be thrown by local BOB buttons (Baseboard Operation Buttons). Turnout position is fed back to JMRI. The Layout Control Bus is CMRI. Each Arduino has a RS485 MAX module and runs the CMRI library.

The fairground has 5 rides that spin or swing. They are controlled by there own dedicated rides Arduino. The rides can be started by BOB buttons or by JMRI. There is a one way I2C link between the two Arduinos on the fairground to allow CMRI data to be transferred to the rides controller.

JMRI has a CMRI node per baseboard/Arduino. These are 0, 2, 3, 4 and 5. Sensors and turnouts are numbered via the node. The thousands digit identifies the node. Turnouts are 2 bit, pulsed. Track detection sensors start at 0 bit (1 in JMRI) and ascend to the number of track block sections. Turnout sensors follow on after these and use 2 bit feedback. Bit 23 (24 in JMRI) provides a heartbeat from the node to show that JMRI is receiving data from each node.

The tracks on Leston are Rear and Near. Tram direction is Forward and Backward. The fairground is a loop track. Trams change from Rear to Near as they traverse it. Trams change their direction at the terminus. On departure they run through the crossover and along the Rear track.

Scripts are used to enable JMRI to run trams. The scripts read the sensors of the blocks ahead of the trams location. When the sensors ahead are all inactive JMRI increases the trams throttle speed. When the destination block sensor goes active JMRI decreases the throttle speed to zero. The tram waits at the stop. After the wait period, the process is repeated for the route to the next stop. If a route contains a turnout, this is set to ensure it is not set against the tram. When trams reach the terminus they do so on the Near track. Once they have stopped their direction is toggled. The crossover is thrown prior to departure to route the tram on the Rear track for another loop .

This system allows JMRI to control multiple trams. It also allows operators control of trams to mix with JMRI automation, as long as the operator drives their trams the correct way around the loop.
